Recall that to ensure
a system of property rights,
nodes need to reach a
distributed consensus on
what can constitute
a correct set of transactions.
Now, also Bitcoin must
replace the need
for a central bank.
So it must manage
currency supply.
Interestingly, these two
problems turn out to be related.
Recall the distributed
consensus protocol
from the previous lecture.
Our initial digital
consensus protocol,
the thought experiment, was
to pick nodes at random.
By picking nodes at random,
we make it hard for
any single node
to control the blockchain.
This automatically disincentivizes
malicious behavior
by making malicious
behavior difficult.
However, it does require
picking a node at random.
Moreover, what you would
really like to do is to
only pick honest nodes and
never pick malicious ones.
Now, this is not possible
because not only
can you not tell,
nodes do not even
have identities.
But what if you
could somehow turn
a node into an honest node?
Now, our first pass at
distributed consensus require
picking a node at random.
We know that this is
impossible for two reasons.
First of all, as I talked
about in previous lectures,
there's no such thing as
computer-generated randomness.
Recall a computer can
only generate
pseudo-random numbers.
Even if there were,
it would require
a centralized computer
to generate the randomness,
and everyone would
need to agree on it.
So there would be some degree
of centralization.
So really we have two problems
to solve: generating
randomness and incentivizing
honest behavior.
Solving one problem
helps with the other.
If randomness is not good enough,
it makes it more likely that
a malicious node will
take over the system.
But if we incentivize
honest behavior,
then fewer nodes are
malicious to begin with,
therefore, decreasing
the need for true randomness.
Bitcoin's proof-of-work,
proposed by
Satoshi Nakamoto is
a truly ingenious way
of dealing with these problems.
It also constitutes
a vast experiment.
There is no theory,
economic or otherwise,
that tells us that
proof-of-work should well work.
We just see that,
so far, it does.
Side note: It's
worth understanding
proof-of-work pretty well
for at least two reasons.
First, because it contains
some genuinely new ideas.
Currently, many intermediaries
profit off of information.
Now, what if information
could be stored
accurately and maintained
in a decentralized way?
The blockchain helps with that.
But it doesn't go far
enough because it
doesn't govern how
new information gets added.
So that's point number one.
There's some genuinely
new ideas here.
Point number two, many
believe that it is
proof-of-work that contains
the seeds of Bitcoin's downfall.
So if we want to
understand what some of
the naysayers about
Bitcoin have been saying,
then we have to
understand proof-of-work.
So proof-of-work concept
one is block reward.
Now, let's continue with
the thought experiment.
Assume for the moment that we can
pick a node at random
to propose a block.
Now, let's say that we give
the node that proposes
the blocks some extra
bitcoins to transact with
more precisely because,
remember, a node doesn't
have an identity,
so it can't spend a bitcoin.
As part of the block,
the node gets to include
a transaction with
these bitcoins,
presumably to pay itself,
but we don't know that.
Now, this is going to act
to keep the blocks honest.
Why? It might seem strange,
because they get
the block reward even
if they behave dishonestly.
Well, here's how it works.
The only way they
actually get to receive
their reward is if future nodes
accept their block.
So recall that future nodes
except a proposed block by
including a hash pointer to
the block in the next
block they propose.
Now, suppose you act dishonestly,
extending perhaps an
orphaned fork with
transactions to you
or your friends.
Now, the next node is unlikely
to accept your block.
If that node does not
accept your block,
your block is still less
likely to become part of
the accepted chain
in the long run,
and if that's the case,
the transaction with
your new bitcoins is gone
forever and no block
reward for you.
So you had better
propose a block that
will gain acceptance and be
part of the long-run chain.
Let's play the devil's
advocate for a moment.
Let's suppose that
most nodes are not
honest but actually that
most nodes are malicious.
Now, let's say you
behave maliciously.
Is it possible that
the next node might choose
to reward your behavior
by accepting your block?
Suppose if you are honest
that the next node might
choose to punish you by
accepting a different block,
then dishonest behavior
would be rewarded.
Is this something that
could actually happen?
Actually, no.
That's the beauty of this system.
So here's a fact about
honesty and dishonesty that
we're going to rely on,
whether it's a fact
or not is not clear.
Let's call it a conjecture.
Let's suppose that nodes
behave honestly, unless
incentivized otherwise.
So we will say that
honest nodes are public
spirited in that sense.
They can still be out for
their own self-interest.
But if it's in
their self-interest,
they will behave honestly,
and when in doubt,
they'll behave honestly.
Now, let's say malicious nodes
are out for their own good.
So for example, here's
what we're not assuming.
We're not assuming that
the malicious nodes are
specifically designed for
the destruction of the system.
We're simply assuming that
the malicious nodes
are self-interested.
So let's continue
this devil's advocate argument.
Suppose, I, Jessica, propose
a block that exhibits
self-dealing, for example.
It's a malicious block.
Now, consider the next node
that's chosen to propose
a block will say this
node is Alice's node.
Now, let's think about
Alice's decision to
accept my block,
potentially rewarding
my malicious behavior.
Now, remember that Alice also
wants to receive
the block reward.
Accepting my block makes
it less likely that
her block will be
accepted in
the next round because
the next node will see that
my block was malicious.
So in other words,
to accept my malicious block,
Alice needs to not
only be malicious,
she also needs to be
without self-interest.
So note, in the background is
a prevailing view
that most nodes are
acting honestly
because all incentives
are for them to do so.
So just to summarize,
in the Bitcoin protocol,
all nodes are peers.
They all in principle get
to propose transactions.
Why should they behave honestly,
as opposed to seek to
reward themselves?
The answer is incentives.
Honest behavior leads to
likely block rewards,
and malicious behavior
probably will not succeed.
It ism therefore,
self-fulfilling equilibrium that
most not nodes act honestly and
expect other nodes
to act honestly,
which then in turn incentivizes
more honest behavior.
What's next? So we were still in
the thought experiment
of assuming randomness.
What determines which node
gets to create a block?
In real life, there is
no magic random number generator
that allows us to implement
the thought experiment,
or is there? We'll see.